pid limiting documentation (#23929)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/policy/pid-limiting.md

and limits. However, you specify it in a different way: rather than defining a
Pod's resource limit in the `.spec` for a Pod, you configure the limit as a
setting on the kubelet. Pod-defined PID limits are not currently supported.

{{< caution >}}
This means that the limit that applies to a Pod may be different depending on
where the Pod is scheduled. To make things simple, it's easiest if all Nodes use
the same PID resource limits and reservations.
{{< /caution >}}

## Node PID limits

Kubernetes allows you to reserve a number of process IDs for the system use. To
configure the reservation, use the parameter `pid=<number>` in the
`--system-reserved` and `--kube-reserved` command line options to the kubelet.
The value you specified declares that the specified number of process IDs will
be reserved for the system as a whole and for Kubernetes system daemons
respectively.

{{< note >}}

Before Kubernetes version 1.20, PID resource limiting with Node-level
reservations required enabling the [feature
gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/#feature-gates:~:text=SupportNodePidsLimit)
`SupportNodePidsLimit` to work. 

> {{< note >}}

Reviewer: should be `{{< /note >}}`.

line 97 too.

Author: thank you for noticing!

## Pod PID limits

Kubernetes allows you to limit the number of processes running in a Pod. You
specify this limit at the node level, rather than configuring it as a resource
limit for a particular Pod. Each Node can have a different PID limit.  
To configure the limit, you can specify the command line parameter `--pod-max-pids` to the kubelet, or set `PodPidsLimit` in the kubelet [configuration file](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubelet-config-file/).

{{< note >}}

Before Kubernetes version 1.20, PID resource limiting for Pods required enabling

> the [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/#feature-gates:~:text=SupportPodPidsLimit)

Reviewer: the link target is incorrect.

Author: this will be added in the separate PR: #23883 I didn't want to merge those

---
reviewers:
- derekwaynecarr

> title: PID Limiting

Reviewer 2: How about
```suggestion
title: Process ID Limits And Reservations
```

content_type: concept

> weight: 10

Reviewer 2: I recommend setting a higher value, as there are other documents in the policy section that should come first.

Author: I should have read contributing.md. Just copied from other file. Let me take a look

Author: this is the doc I found: https://v1-16.docs.kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/content-organization/#page-order I updated weight for more articles. Was it the right decision? Or just assign 40 to the new page?

---

<!-- overview -->

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.20" state="stable" >}}

> PID Limiting features allow administrators are able to provide pod-to-pod PID isolation by defaulting the number of PIDs per pod. In addition, administrators can enable node-to-pod PID isolation by reserving a number of allocatable PIDs to user pods via node allocatable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubernetes allow you to limit the number of process IDs (PIDs) that a {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="Pod" text="Pod">}} can use. You can also reserve a number of allocatable PIDs for each {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="node" text="node">}} for use by the operating system and daemons (rather than by Pods).
```

<!-- body -->

> Process IDs (PIDs) are a fundamental resource on Linux hosts. It is trivial to hit the task limit without hitting any other resource limits and cause instability to a host machine. Administrators require mechanisms to ensure that user pods cannot induce PID exhaustion that prevents host daemons (runtime, kubelet, etc) from running. In addition, it is important to ensure that PIDs are limited among pods in order to ensure they have limited impact to other workloads on the node.

Reviewer 2: How about:
```suggestion
Process IDs (PIDs) are a fundamental resource on nodes. It is trivial to hit the task limit without hitting any other resource limits, which can then cause instability to a host machine.

Cluster administrators require mechanisms to ensure that Pods running in the cluster cannot induce PID exhaustion that prevents host daemons (such as the kubelet or kube-proxy, and potentially also the container runtime) from running. In addition, it is important to ensure that PIDs are limited among Pods in order to ensure they have limited impact on other workloads on the same node.

{{< note >}}
On Linux, consider raising `/proc/sys/kernel/pid_max` if your operating system sets this to a low default, such as 32768.
{{< /note >}}
```
?
```

> You can configure a kubelet to limit the number of PIDs a given pod can consume. If that machine supports `32,768` PIDs and `100` pods, one can give each pod a budget of `300` PIDs to prevent total exhaustion of PIDs. If the admin wants to overcommit PIDs similar to cpu or memory, they may do so as well with some additional risks. Either way, no one pod can bring the whole machine down. This will generally prevent against simple fork bombs from taking over your cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can configure a kubelet to limit the number of PIDs a given pod can consume. For example, if your node's host OS is set to use a maximum of 262144 PIDs and 250 pods, one can give each pod a budget of 1000 PIDs to prevent using up that node's overall number of available PIDs. If the admin wants to overcommit PIDs similar to CPU or memory, they may do so as well with some additional risks. Either way, no one pod can bring the whole machine down. This kind of resource limiting helps to protect against simple fork bombs from affecting service cluster-wide.
```

Per-pod PID limiting allows administrators to protect one pod from another, but does not ensure if all pods on the machine can protect the node, and the node agents themselves from falling over.

> Node PID limiting provides isolation of PIDs from end user workloads on a pod from the node agents (kubelet, runtime, etc.). The admin is able to reserve a specific number of PIDs - similar to how one reserves CPU or memory today - and ensure they are never consumed by pods on that machine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also reserve an amount of PIDs for node overhead, separate from the allocation to Pods. This is similar to how you can reserve CPU, memory, or other resources for use by the operating system and other facilities outside of Pods and their containers.
```

> PID limiting is a an important part of the family of [compute resources](/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/) requests and limits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PID limiting is a an important sibling to [compute resource](/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/) requests and limits. However, you specify it in a different way: rather than defining a Pod's resource limit in the `.spec` for a Pod, you configure the limit as a setting on the kubelet.

{{< caution >}}
This means that the limit that applies to a Pod may be different depending on where the Pod is scheduled. To make things simple, it's easiest if all Nodes use the same PID resource limits and reservations.
{{< /caution >}}
```

> ## Enabling Node PID limits

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Node PID limits
```

> In order to enable the support to limiting PIDs on the Node, use the parameter `pid=<number>` in the `--system-reserved` and `--kube-reserved` options. The value is specified to ensure that the specified number of process IDs will be reserved for the system as a whole and for Kubernetes system daemons respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubernetes allows you to reserve a number of process IDs for the system use.
To configure the reservation, use the parameter `pid=<number>` in the `--system-reserved` and `--kube-reserved` command line options to the kubelet.
The value you specified declares that the specified number of process IDs will be reserved for the system as a whole and for Kubernetes system daemons respectively.
```

> **Note:** Before the version 1.20, these feature require feature flags [`SupportNodePidsLimit`](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/#feature-gates:~:text=SupportNodePidsLimit) to work.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< note >}}
Before Kubernetes version 1.20, PID resource limiting with Node-level reservations required enabling the [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) `SupportNodePidsLimit` to work.
{{< note >}}
```
?

> ## Enabling Pod PID limits

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Pod PID limits
```

> Pod PID limit allows to limit the number of processes running in a pod. Cluster administrators can use command line parameter [`--pod-max-pids`](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kubelet/#options:~:text=%2D%2Dpod%2Dmax%2Dpids%20int) or [kubelet config file](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubelet-config-file/) setting [`PodPidsLimit`](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/f5a54e3f5862994f8cf422a60f4973583e4f98ba/staging/src/k8s.io/kubelet/config/v1beta1/types.go#L484-L490).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubernetes allows you to limit the number of processes running in a Pod. You specify this limit at the node level, rather than configuring it as a resource limit for a particular Pod. Each Node can have a different PID limit.  
To configure the limit, you can specify the command line parameter `--pod-max-pids` to the kubelet, or set `PodPidsLimit` in the kubelet [configuration file](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubelet-config-file/).
```

> **Note:** Before the version 1.20, these feature require feature flags [`SupportPodPidsLimit`](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/#feature-gates:~:text=SupportPodPidsLimit) to work.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< note >}}
Before Kubernetes version 1.20, PID resource limiting for Pods required enabling the [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) `SupportPodPidsLimit` to work.
{{< note >}}
```
?

## {{% heading "whatsnext" %}}

- Refer to the [PID Limiting enhancement document](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/097b4d8276bc9564e56adf72505d43ce9bc5e9e8/keps/sig-node/20190129-pid-limiting.md) for more information.

> - [Process ID Limiting for Stability Improvements in Kubernetes 1.14](/blog/2019/04/15/process-id-limiting-for-stability-improvements-in-kubernetes-1.14/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- For historical context, read [Process ID Limiting for Stability Improvements in Kubernetes 1.14](/blog/2019/04/15/process-id-limiting-for-stability-improvements-in-kubernetes-1.14/).
```

> - [Managing Resources for Containers](/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Read [Managing Resources for Containers](/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/).
```

---
reviewers:
- derekwaynecarr
title: Process ID Limits And Reservations
content_type: concept
weight: 40
---

<!-- overview -->

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.20" state="stable" >}}

Kubernetes allow you to limit the number of process IDs (PIDs) that a {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="Pod" text="Pod" >}} can use. You can also reserve a number of allocatable PIDs for each {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="node" text="node" >}} for use by the operating system and daemons (rather than by Pods).

<!-- body -->

Process IDs (PIDs) are a fundamental resource on nodes. It is trivial to hit the task limit without hitting any other resource limits, which can then cause instability to a host machine.

Cluster administrators require mechanisms to ensure that Pods running in the cluster cannot induce PID exhaustion that prevents host daemons (such as the kubelet or kube-proxy, and potentially also the container runtime) from running. In addition, it is important to ensure that PIDs are limited among Pods in order to ensure they have limited impact on other workloads on the same node.

{{< note >}}

> On Linux, consider raising `/proc/sys/kernel/pid_max` if your operating system sets this to a low default, such as `32768`.

Reviewer: This is unclear to me. Is '32768' an example value for me to consider, or is it the "low default" I should change?

Author: this sentence looks clear for me. I can change to simplify the language

{{< /note >}}

> You can configure a kubelet to limit the number of PIDs a given pod can consume. For example, if your node's host OS is set to use a maximum of `262144` PIDs and `250` pods, one can give each pod a budget of `1000` PIDs to prevent using up that node's overall number of available PIDs. If the admin wants to overcommit PIDs similar to CPU or memory, they may do so as well with some additional risks. Either way, no one pod can bring the whole machine down. This kind of resource limiting helps to protect against simple fork bombs from affecting service cluster-wide.

Reviewer: Can we break the long lines so that we can comment on a specific phrase or word?
In the future, this kind of long lines are difficult to change, diff compare.

Reviewer: > if your node's host OS is set to use a maximum of `262144` PIDs and `250` pods

This expression is is confusing. How am I supposed to set the maximum Pods on the host OS?
If I'm understanding this correctly, pods limits can be set via some command line flags, some configuration files or even resource quota.
But all these settings are related to kubernetes control plane, not the host OS.

Reviewer: > Either way, no one pod can bring the whole machine down.

Do you mean "no one pod should be allowed to bring the whole machine down", or "no one pod is able to bring the whole machine down"?

Reviewer: > This kind of resource limiting helps to protect against simple fork bombs from affecting service cluster-wide.

This kind of resource limiting helps to protect cluster-wide services against simple fork bombs.

or 

This kind of resource limiting helps to prevent simple fork bombs from affecting service cluster-wide.

Leaving this to a native speaker.

Author: > Can we break the long lines so that we can comment on a specific phrase or word?

Definitely. I didn't know what's the best practice here.

Author: rephrased all

---
reviewers:
- derekwaynecarr
title: Process ID Limits And Reservations
content_type: concept
weight: 40
---

<!-- overview -->

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.20" state="stable" >}}

> Kubernetes allow you to limit the number of process IDs (PIDs) that a {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="Pod" text="Pod" >}} can use.

Reviewer 3: What do think about adding a heading for the content starting at line 13?
The first heading I see is `Node PID limits`.

Author: I just followed the patter from other files. I think the title will become an H1

Author: Looks nice when rendered:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9950081/93507344-69cbb580-f8d2-11ea-8469-d98a32f0ed9a.png)

You can also reserve a number of allocatable PIDs for each {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="node" text="node" >}}
for use by the operating system and daemons (rather than by Pods).

<!-- body -->

Process IDs (PIDs) are a fundamental resource on nodes. It is trivial to hit the
task limit without hitting any other resource limits, which can then cause
instability to a host machine.

Cluster administrators require mechanisms to ensure that Pods running in the
cluster cannot induce PID exhaustion that prevents host daemons (such as the
{{< glossary_tooltip text="kubelet" term_id="kubelet" >}} or
{{< glossary_tooltip text="kube-proxy" term_id="kube-proxy" >}},
and potentially also the container runtime) from running.
In addition, it is important to ensure that PIDs are limited among Pods in order
to ensure they have limited impact on other workloads on the same node.

{{< note >}}

> On certain Linux installations, operating system sets the PIDs limit to a low default,

Reviewer 2: nit:
```suggestion
On certain Linux installations, the operating system sets the PIDs limit to a low default,
```

> such as `32768`. Consider raising the value of `/proc/sys/kernel/pid_max`.

Reviewer 3: This is referring to something like:
`In order to use the `pids` controller, set the maximum number of tasks in
pids.max (this is not available in the root cgroup for obvious reasons). The
number of processes currently in the cgroup is given by pids.current.` ?

Reviewer 2: It's this tip:

Author: is it something you want to add to the note? Or replace with?

{{< /note >}}

You can configure a kubelet to limit the number of PIDs a given pod can consume.
For example, if your node's host OS is set to use a maximum of `262144` PIDs and
expect to host less than `250` pods, one can give each pod a budget of `1000`

> PIDs to prevent using up that node's overall number of available PIDs. If the

Reviewer 3: What do you think about this edit?
For example, if your node's host OS is set to use a maximum of 262144 PIDs and
you expect to host less than 250 pods, give each pod a budget of 1000
PIDs to prevent using up that node's overall number of available PIDs.

Reviewer 4: i think that is fine.

its an operator choice to choose to over-commit or under-commit pids.

the main goal with pid limiting per pod is to stop a simple fork-bomb as we don't require pods to requests pids as a resource in favor of letting an admin set a per pod max.

admin wants to overcommit PIDs similar to CPU or memory, they may do so as well
with some additional risks. Either way, a single pod will not be able to bring
the whole machine down. This kind of resource limiting helps to prevent simple
fork bombs from affecting operation of an entire cluster.

Per-pod PID limiting allows administrators to protect one pod from another, but

> does not ensure if all pods on the machine can protect the node, and the node
> agents themselves from falling over.

Reviewer 2: nit:
```suggestion
does not ensure that all Pods scheduled onto that host are unable to impact the node overall.
Per-Pod limiting also does not protect the node agents themselves from PID exhaustion.
```
?

and their containers.

PID limiting is a an important sibling to [compute
resource](/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/) requests
and limits. However, you specify it in a different way: rather than defining a
Pod's resource limit in the `.spec` for a Pod, you configure the limit as a
setting on the kubelet. Pod-defined PID limits are not currently supported.

{{< caution >}}
This means that the limit that applies to a Pod may be different depending on
where the Pod is scheduled. To make things simple, it's easiest if all Nodes use
the same PID resource limits and reservations.
{{< /caution >}}

## Node PID limits

Kubernetes allows you to reserve a number of process IDs for the system use. To
configure the reservation, use the parameter `pid=<number>` in the
`--system-reserved` and `--kube-reserved` command line options to the kubelet.
The value you specified declares that the specified number of process IDs will
be reserved for the system as a whole and for Kubernetes system daemons
respectively.

{{< note >}}
Before Kubernetes version 1.20, PID resource limiting with Node-level
reservations required enabling the [feature

> gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/#feature-gates:~:text=SupportNodePidsLimit)

Reviewer 2: This kind of fragment identifier is nonstandard, I recommend linking just to `/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/`

Reviewer 3: Yes, please fix.

Author: fixed

`SupportNodePidsLimit` to work.
{{< /note >}}

## Pod PID limits

Kubernetes allows you to limit the number of processes running in a Pod. You
specify this limit at the node level, rather than configuring it as a resource
limit for a particular Pod. Each Node can have a different PID limit.  
To configure the limit, you can specify the command line parameter `--pod-max-pids` to the kubelet, or set `PodPidsLimit` in the kubelet [configuration file](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubelet-config-file/).

{{< note >}}
Before Kubernetes version 1.20, PID resource limiting for Pods required enabling

> the [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)

Reviewer 5: I guess it is opened by default since 1.14

SupportPodPidsLimit | true | Beta | 1.14
-- | -- | -- | --

> the [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/#feature-gates:~:text=SupportPodPidsLimit)

Reviewer 2: This kind of fragment identifier is nonstandard, I recommend linking just to `/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/`

Author: resolved
